spoken about quite a few things today
that I've never really spoken about.
James Smith, the world's fastest growing
online personal trainer, but he's much
more than that. Like a driving
instructor, I should not exist in your
life in 6 months. Why is it so
acceptable for people to invest money
into fitness professionals and then
still be there 3 years later? If you do
your job well enough, your client
leaves. If people were truly happy, I
would have been shut the hell up then.
And I wouldn't have experienced so much
growth from pointing out the
inadequacies. I don't like people that
presents a solution without education.
It breaks me to think of the tens of
thousands of people who gave up on their
ambitions because they went the wrong
way for advice. And when they failed the
plan or don't finish it, they blame
themselves. Where the hell have you come
to the conclusion that you would not
succeed following your passion? I just
wish that maybe earlier on someone had
said to me, "Okay, you're not doing well
here, but this doesn't mean you're not
intelligent. There is something else
that you could do very well at."
Quick one. Can you do me a favor if
you're listening to this and hit the
subscribe button, the follow button,
wherever you're listening to this
podcast. Thank you so much. James Smith,
the world's fastest growing online
personal trainer, but he's much more
than that. He's an author of three
books. His third one's about to come
out. He's unapologetic. He is outspoken.
And he says it how it is. And that's
meant that he now reaches millions of
people online every single week. I had
an expectation on James. I've seen him
on social media. I've seen the types of
things he says when he's on telly. But
the guy I met today, deeply self-aware,
unbelievably humble, and so incredibly
wise. And because he's so honest and
straight talking, I walk away with some
lessons that I genuinely believe will
stay with me for a lifetime.
You are going to love this one. Trust me
when I say that. Without further ado,
I'm Steven Bartlett and this is the
Diary of a CEO. I hope nobody's
listening, but if you are, then please
keep this to yourself.
James, you've listened to this podcast
before. Um, so you you probably know
that I tend to start in a similar place.
I tend to ask my guests about their
early years. But when I was reading
about comments you'd made about your
early years, one of the things you said
is it's not not much very interesting
happened.
Yeah. I mean, it's one of those things
where I was like, there's there's so
many things to talk about, let's not go
there. As a young child in school,
didn't have a huge amount of friends and
I think that primary and secondary
school, if you had to pick five people
that are never going to accomplish
anything in life, I would have been in
that that group of people. uh was
diagnosed with learning difficulties
which kind of been disputed. I remember
Jimmy Carr talking about getting that
laptop and it's true. You had to see an
educational psychologist and at the end
they were like James' reading and
writing speed is very quick. We think
he's just lazy. And throughout school I
was in the cloak room and they give you
extra time in exams which I didn't need
because I was so bored. I'd be done the
exam 20 minutes before everyone else and
just sat there not through being
intelligent but like I can't be bothered
with this and a lot of behavioral issues
at school. Uh if I look back at that I
almost feel like my brain was only
functioning at 20% throughout the whole
education system probably up until
college and dropping out of university
in my first year.
And you were adopted.
Yes. This is a open topic and I even
before this podcast I was like I wonder
if any other high achievers are adopted.
Found Steve Jobs, Jamie Fox, uh Marilyn
Monroe was in the list and I was trying
to figure out if I could draw any, you
know, relations to other people that
have done it. I've even read books where
someone on Instagram's like, "Oh, if
you're adopted, you should read this."
because it resonated with me and I
bought these books and talks about
abandonment and senses of, you know,
unfulfillment. I I didn't really relate
with any of those topics. So, I think
that as far as uh kind of dream adoption
story, I ended up in the Smith family,
you know, blonde hair, blue eyes, mom
and dad still together now, each other's
first girlfriend and boyfriend. So, I
was incredibly fortunate with that.
Having come all this way in your life
and learned a ton from the books you've
written and I know that's such an
introspective process, but all the
people you've spoken to, all the DMs you
must get. Are there any sort of dots
you've connected now that have made you
realize that being adopted was in any
way consequential to who you were to
become?
It's difficult. I'm still discovering
it. Uh, you know, with relationships, I
think it's a very interesting one. I've
had conversations with other adopted
people and they they say to you like you
become very attached to people very
quickly because you know it's a very
strange thing never seeing a blood
relative before. So you might look at
your parents and other people look at
their parents and you know uncle they
see features. I've never had that. And
you never feel like your parents aren't
your parents because I'm a strong
believer there who bring you up. But
then sometimes in relationships, maybe
I'm a bit cold. Maybe I'm a bit too
intense. I'm always judging that and
overanalyzing it. And people ask me as
well, they're like, "Oh, do you think
you're this way cuz you're adopted?" And
suddenly you're overthinking a lot.
You're like, "Is it is it not? Is it
something that's a big part or a small
part?" And it's very difficult to get
answers for that. when you go through
school and you go through like early the
early teen years and then you've got
people telling you you've got a learning
um issue and then they're giving you
special treatment and all these things
at that part in your life having like
bounced around a little bit and not
really fit anywhere in terms of the
system. Do you think in hindsight you
you were learning that you were like not
good enough?
100%. And I think that I definitely wore
that for the next four or five years.
But I thought the only place I'm going
to be accepted is a bottom position in a
corporate gig. 20K a year. I started off
on 18 sales department. I'm going to
have to cold call people and kind of
work my way up slowly. So that's what I
did for my early 20s. Worked in the
sales department, 18k basic, then jump
to another one for 20k basic. I thought,
well, I'll do this for 5 to 10 years,
get to a management role, do that for 5
to 10 years, maybe get near a
directorship role. And I think that's
what a lot of people who have failed the
education system think. They're like,
well, that's what people do. Oh, I might
try recruitment, which I also did for a
year.
And everyone said, oh, you earn good
money, but you hate it. And I'm I'm 22.
I'm like, how can you earn good money
and hate it? I did recruitment, it was
good money, and I hated it.
So, it was it's one of those things
where definitely I do feel that if we
paint people when we see people get bad
grades at school, we should, you know,
have a more open conversation about,
okay, you're not doing well at this.
What do you think you'll be good at? And
I mean, even in the last 10 years, don't
play video games. There's no future in
that. Now, there is. You know, don't
spend all day on your computer. There's
no future in that. Now, there is. So I
just wish that maybe earlier on someone
had said to me, okay, you're not doing
well here, but this doesn't mean you're
not intelligent. There is something else
in a lateral, you know, pathway that you
could do very well at. What would you
say to someone, and I imagine there's a
lot of people listening to this now, who
are driving in their cars now on the
motorway, cuz I see them upload the
podcast when they're like driving,
they're on the treadmill on Monday
morning, etc., and they're in that job
where but there's that voice inside them
that's saying do you know what you could
have done more and you you got so much
more potential but they've believed the
narrative they're like corporate just
climb your way up some [__] ladder I
have two answers to that first so many
people are hitting quotas working for
someone else's goal so in recruitment
people go I just don't think you know
I'd be able to accomplish much on my own
I go okay but you're doing something you
don't enjoy and and you're exceeding at
it. You're excelling at it. You've hit
quota for 3 years in something you're
not passionate about. Where the hell
have you come to the conclusion that you
would not succeed following your
passion? How have you come to that
conclusion? That's ridiculous. Now, the
second thing is although this has been
disputed, I'm a big believer and I'm
sure you will too in income society that
after you earn a certain amount of
money, there's a tapering off effect.
And it's very difficult to to say that
because straight away people's defense
is, well, it's okay for you because you
you've gone past that that curve. I'm
still on the way up. And I say to them,
you're probably working your career for
another 10 years because you think in 10
years time you're going to have enough
money to eventually be happy with your
situation. What if that bet is wrong?
What if you've just lost 10 years and
you're not happy?
What if I think the two people there's
two ways of thinking. Some people think
it's an exponential return where they'll
go through misery for long enough and
then boom, they're just happy. I said to
them, how do you think millionaire CEOs
wake up out of bed like, "Oh my god,
life is so good." It's the exact they
wake up same as you. Oh, I can't wait to
have a cup of coffee. And then the other
one is more of a linear scale where they
go, okay, 30k this much happiness, 40k
this much, 50k this much. I say to them,
what if in 10 years time you're wrong? M
10 years is a lot more than 10 years
between 30 and 40. 10 years is a lot
more than 10 years between 20 and 30.
Imagine, always think in the back of
your mind that that bet is going to be
wrong. And if you could fast forward to
10 years time and see that you made the
wrong bet, how would you feel now? Think
about that before you make a decision.
Yeah, it's so true. You know, I linked
up linkup TV published a video with me
the day and the they put the title as
like money won't make you happy, which
is not what I said, but I understand why
they're doing it. We got to get them
clicks. And um I did see I saw the
comments that said a very similar thing.
It was like, "Oh, it's easy for you to
say." I'm like, "Well, it would take
someone that's made a million to tell
you that a million isn't it. I couldn't
have told you when I was broke." Like,
so and also I have no incentive to to
like put you off getting rich. I'm just
telling you, I'm letting you know that
up here my happiness didn't scale
proportionate to my wealth uh to a
point. So, as you say, 75k per household
apparently it starts to plateau. Just
letting you know. I always say to
people, it's very important they
understand this. All wins feel the same.
All wins.
That's true.
You don't get a new search charge on
dopamine. The way our brain chemistry
works, you know, okay, pleasure,
serotonin, dopamine, you don't get a 1.7
search charge because you're wealthy.
So, you know, when you secure a deal at
a mid-level, high level, or you know,
stock exchange level, it's the same
dopamine response. And it's one of those
things where people go, "Oh my god."
Okay. Yeah. and buying a car, whether
it's a Lamborghini or a brand new Golf,
people cannot comprehend that that win
feels the same. And I love to tell them,
I'm like, "No, it exactly is." And when
people set goals, and I don't like the
conversation going into fitness, but
they say, "I want to lose 10 kg." I'm
like, "Lose 1 kg, damn it."
And then celebrate that because that
feeling of stepping on the scale and
accomplishing something is the same at 1
kg as it is at 10. you've just
really bad
celebrate wins at the level we choose.
Not only do they feel the same, we get
to determine where those wins are.
Did you find that success wasn't what
you thought it would be?
Well, this is interesting because and
people don't believe me when I say this.
I never intended for this. I never had
dreams of being what I would I would
consider it wealthy. And people will
watch this and they'll go, "No, no, no.
The other guy's wealthy." And I'll say,
"No, no, no. From a subjective
standpoint, I've been able to buy my
friends and my family dinner without
having to check my bank account for like
four years.
That's something that I didn't have for
the 28 before it." That's wealthy,
right? And um it it's one of those
things that I never really wanted. If
I'm completely honest, my goal as a
personal trainer was 10 clients, three
sessions a week, pay me well. I don't
want 30 clients doing 30 hours. I want
10 that see me three times a week. I'll
be in London or I'll be in Sydney. If
they skip a session, it's £150 an hour,
they won't mind because they're good,
high level clients. That was it. That
was the goal.
What happened?
I became processorientated
probably
2015 where on social media
for the first time, investments don't
really interest me that much. And this
is another crazy thing people hate me
about. The social media investment did.
I will post something useful every day
here for years, 10 years I thought. And
in 10 years time, hey guys, here's a
book. Ching, make 20 grand, whatever.
And as I was posting into that, email
marketing. I wrote email marketing
emails for 10 months before I made a
sale. If you had met me 9 months in, you
would have thought I was [__] insane.
Hey James, what are you doing? I'm
writing emails to who? 300 people. What
about my online PT program? How many of
them buying it? None so far. social
media three years in, what are you
doing? I'm posting every day. How much
money have you made? None. People would
go, "You're [__] mental." Nowadays,
they go, "Okay, fair play." But the the
the momentum that I wanted, I just
wanted a life where I didn't have to
seek clients, they'd seek me. I just
wanted a life where I could post about a
book and money would appear in my
account. And after doing that for three,
four years, I feel like the table's hot
and I enjoy being at the hot table. And
rather than looking at an exit strategy,
I've created a life that I love where
send a marketing email, market my brand
so I can get people to email, manage my
academy, you know, promote books and
write them. I have everything I need.
I'm I'm like on a wave that just never
seems to end. And that to me, I mean,
Carol Dwek, one of my favorite authors,
becoming is better than being. I never
wanted to be anything in particular. So
there's no gold medal depression at the
end, right?
Remember that from your podcast? That's
that's not there for me because I've
never set an Everest peak. I've never
set that. So
this wave that's moving for me, I'm just
happy. And do you know what? I've I joke
around all the time. I'm like, if this
ends tomorrow, what a ride, you know?
And I don't think enough people see it
that way where, you know, I know you've
had the pleasure of taking friends on a
private jet. I did that once and I was
like, "Wow, if I if I die tomorrow,
they'll be like, "Rest in peace,
though." Hopefully, they'll cry. He took
me on a jet for one night. And um I if
this all came crashing down, I'd be
happy with that because I never set it.
You know, there are so many boxers who
wanted to be heavyweight world champion.
They never made it. They've got to go to
the grave with that. I almost feel like
there's a element of being unbeatable
when I never set a precipice to reach.
Yeah. I mean Mo GA which is one of my
favorite podcasts I've ever done here
talks a lot about that that you know
unhappiness is in essence when our
expectations of how life is supposed to
be going go unmet and he's the they call
him a happiness expert genius on the
topic and even billionaires they have
expectations of their steak tasting like
Japanese wagu perfection 10 out of 10.
So if it comes and it's a 9 out of 10
steak they are often furious. The [__]
is this medium rare I said right?
Whereas you take that exact same steak,
you give it to, you know, someone else
that's on 18K a year, they'll be like
that because their expectations are
lower and their overall standards are
lower. They will be over the [__]
moon. Same stake, two different people
with two different sets of expectations.
It's interesting as well where uh next
time you're at a table with people that
are very accomplished, I noticed the
people that have experienced the stake
that much, they're so much more involved
in conversations because that's the only
thing that can interest them on that
night.
Yeah. They've had 10 and this is
something that petrifies me where
sometimes I feel like I want to be
successful but not too much
because once you've eaten at every
fivestar restaurant in London like you
say your standards been set once you've
dated 10 models standards have been set
and I almost do feel sorry for sometimes
the Bezos the Bilzerians you know I
think wow I'm like what what are you
doing each day to excite you and this is
why not to hijack the conversation but
Brazilian jiu-jitsu for
is like a nucleus of my focus, my
attention, what I care about on a daily
basis because nothing can really impact
that. And I will never be able to get to
a status where no matter no matter who I
am, what I do, or what I accomplish,
when I step on the mats, we get in belt
order. For years at my old gym, we all
wipe down the sweat after the mats, like
you know, black belts, get our gears off
and we do it. And it's so important to
me that I know that for the rest of my
life when I can still train, I will
never be too big for that. And I think
that there are so many high achievers
that love that connection to it. And I
feel sometimes for people that are super
successful, they're not getting beatings
enough. They're not For me, I can I
remember
uh did a businessto business event. I
flexed when I was there. I was like,
"Hey guys, I was wearing a gold Rolex,
which I actually just sold this
morning." And I was there. I was like,
"Hey, you know, here's here's what it's
like flying first class. We're in OBC."
You know, I reflect on a business tour.
Next day, went to compete, lost in the
first round, you know, turned up. I was
like, "Wow." It's like, "Thank you for
that. Thank you. My weekend, I would
have been taking off as far as you go if
it wasn't for getting beaten up on the
Sunday." Do you know what? So, so many
people had told me about Brazilian
jiu-jitsu. And the way they speak about
it isn't like it's a sport or a martial
art. It's more like a like a philosophy
for life almost. It teaches you life
lessons. And I so many people had told
me that in a row that I thought, you
know, I [__] need to give this a
shot. And I really enjoyed it. Even
though it was one a one-on-one session
and I was in Indonesia for 2 hours, I
was like, I need to do this more often.
You know, like marketing, social media,
email marketing, you are going to be
awful for the first 6 months. You are.
But if people persevere through that,
and again, I remember where I learned a
lot of my business now. So I was I was
in Victoria. I was in a Double Tree
Hilton. I was in a room with 200
personal trainers. We all learned the
same thing that day. And I remember the
faces of the people in there and I never
saw them again. I've never seen them on
socials. I've never seen them on
Instagram, on Tik Tok, anywhere like
that. And I think to myself, we all
learned the same thing, just not all of
us stuck with it through the the the
painful times where in email marketing,
you you spend six months and you don't
make money. In jiu-jitsu, you spend six
months and you don't beat anyone.
You have to say to yourself, right, I'm
happy to endure this because I know come
the other side, I can reap the rewards.
M
and it's very difficult in this day and
age to say to someone let's do we're
going to get you to do something where
you physically are going to be powerless
for 6 months.
It doesn't sell well that narrative
but then when you get when you get
through it similar to people I I love
the email marketing analogy now so many
people in the new rich can send an email
and that's their day's work done because
they persevered they built the
relationship. They managed to cultivate
an audience who are ready for it. Same
with jiu-jitsu. if people just commit to
it and like you say when people talk
about it you're like this isn't a
coincidence it I drink less I party less
I you know have now ambitions of
teaching my future kids I have ambitions
of teaching white belts when I go back
to Sydney I'll say to my gym hey that no
one wants the fundamentals class I'll
have them I'll have them same with PT
world I never wanted to train athletes I
like just the first time Sharon who is a
housewife and she has to make sure the
kids are at school on time teach her
deadlift. I was like, that's what brings
me pleasure. And I think that I'll
really enjoy teaching the white belts.
And for so many people,
they have so much that they are kind of
working for in life, but nothing that's
such a slow gradual progression like a
martial art in the middle. You've
highlighted there one of the things that
evidently made you successful was that
commitment to consistency. And like I
mean, you would you would have seen it
in your social channels because every
successful person I've seen and I speak
to says the same thing. first couple of
years [__] all then I mean that's the
laws of compounding it goes slow then it
goes really fast you would have seen
that so that's clearly one of the things
but what else made you and because
there's a lot of people on Instagram
giving advice and there's a lot of
fitness people and whatever else why you
of all of them
it's interesting where I think that
having a conversation with me now you'd
probably assume or you would come to the
conclusion I'm different to my socials
I've always seen social media as a
crowded room
where
you know a podcast is where we're sat
together driving somewhere of 3 hours.
Let's talk. Let's relax. Let the
conversation wander. But on Instagram,
on Tik Tok, whatever, I have 10 seconds
to capture your attention. And I love
the idea of polarizing people. I said in
my first book that imagine you invite me
to a barbecue in Shaw Ditch and someone
talks about Formula 1. I go, I [__]
hate Formula 1. Someone goes, what? I
go, look, I just doesn't interest me.
And someone's like, you bought him the
first time and he's [__] on Formula
1. 10 people at the barbecue, three of
them be like, "Do you know what? I also
agree with you. I think it's shit." And
they'll remember me for saying something
controversial rather than, "Oh, yeah.
It's good, isn't it?" "Oh, Louis
Hamilton." Yeah. So, you know, so many
people want to get in line with an
opinion that they're no longer
remembered. So, I took it upon myself
and it was almost by accident. I do my
lives every day. I do videos. Then
something would piss me off and I'm not
a violent person, so I just channel it
into a video and it would get a lot more
likes and shares and I was like, "Hold
on. what's going on here?
So again, I would post 10 videos and it
would be the one where I was a bit more
aggressive.
And over time, I learned that there were
certain things people wanted in a
certain way. And it wasn't the
six-packs, the chicken and broccoli, the
food prep. It was being passionate
without compromise about different
topics. And I do swear as a person, I am
crass. I am vulgar. And I do make very
inappropriate analogies for things. I
put that out Like I said, I only ever
wanted 10 clients. I only ever wanted 10
clients. So, if half the people that see
a video hate me for it, that's fine
because as long as the other half is 10
people that would do business with me,
again, I'm invincible. And I've always
had that mentality that I only need 10
people like me to make a living. And if
I do those 30 hours at £150 an hour, 6
hours between 6:00 a.m. and 2 p.m., I
can live a dream life and be wealthy.
Even though it's barely breaking 100 to
200K a year, as long as I can buy dinner
for my friends and family, I can be
wealthy with 10 people. And people
completely misconrue social media for
that. They go, I need everyone to like
me. I need a million people to like me.
You know, I first flew first class with
28,000 followers, and you don't need
that many people to like you to do well.
And I wish I wish people could
understand that because social media has
become a popularity contest. It's not
this is not a popularity contest. This
is a means of you getting people over
the line to like you enough to do
business with you.
It's so true. I I I did a lot of talking
on stage where I was looking at people
like Pierce Morgan and Kanye West and
Katy Hopkins and what what you've
described there is what I've always said
which is you don't have to like these
people but the conversation orbits
around them. Now your barbecue analogy
there by you saying oh the formula
Formula 1 is [__] Everyone then comes
over to you and the conversation is
centers around James' opinion and that
brings attention to you. So, I said to
my friends last night, cuz I did a tweet
and it's got 20,000 likes and it's like
going [__] crazy and everyone's
talking about it. I said, "Listen,
you're not going to be able to build a
personal brand in 2022. If you're not I
said this my friends last night in our
WhatsApp group, if you're not prepared
for someone to call you a cun, if you're
not if you're not willing to accept
someone calling you a cun, it's going to
be incredibly hard to get um the
attention you need for the algorithms to
turn in your favor. And that means in
your case and as I've seen from many
just being yourself,
but there's a cost.
There is. But you can be selective with
this as well. So, uh, if I have an
argument against the keto diet,
yeah,
I don't advocate the keto diet. So, if a
load of people that are zealots in the
realm of the ketogenic diets hate me,
that's fine. I'm starting fire on
someone else's property. Then, you know,
I I support vegan from an ethical
standpoint, but I don't like the
self-righteous uh you know,
sanctimonious element of veganism. It's
been hijacked
a bit like um I've often said like
feminism, what a fantastic cause,
hijacked by a few to give it a bad
sometimes bad rap. Veganism is the same.
But then I can have a little bit of a a
cheap shot and joke, you know, satire
content with a vegan and suddenly, oh,
the vegan's repping I'm sharing this.
This is unacceptable. again, I've
started fire on someone else's property
and the people you've cultivated to like
you go, "Oh, that's actually really
funny." Or, you know, so you can be very
selective with who you pick arguments
with. I did one about bodybuilding where
I said, "Hey, if you want to, you know,
diet down for 6 months to show off your
insecurities versus someone else's,
cover yourself in fake tan and call it a
sport, you do you, right?" The
bodybuilder community went mental and
everyone was like, "Is this guy stupid?
He's a personal trainer." I don't coach
bodybuilders. Yet, thousands of them
shared my post. My following went up.
And little did they realize it was their
followers that may be invested in them,
but don't agree with their values.
They went, "Hold on,
I'm supposed to hate this guy, but I
agree with him."
And now their eyes are on me, not
someone else.
Being selectively hated is brilliant.
And now I even look to the comment
section for new content. Someone goes,
"James, well, when you going to start
training chess?" I'm like, "Hey man,
when are you going to start, you know,
stop going on people's profiles you
don't follow to make content?" You know,
there are so many like arguments now
that I can see from the negative
comments that I can then turn into
content. M
so again it's one of those things where
people need to appreciate there is a
power in being disliked and if I turn up
to you know an event that's supposed to
be fully booked and it's not got bums in
every seat I might go a I might need to
you know rein it in and really
reconsider what I do for a living but as
long as the talks I do have people in
them as long as I'm still getting
support for what I'm doing I feel like I
must be tiptoeing the line enough like I
say it's It's passion without
compromise. I'm g say what I feel and I
don't care. I think it was Senica. If
you don't wish to be criticized, do
nothing. Say nothing. Be nothing. And
you know, that's how I feel.
And are you being yourself or are you
playing a character?
It's always caffeinated James. You know
me when I've had three coffees. That's
who people get. Behind the scenes. I'm a
bit more relaxed. I'm quite happy to
disagree with people because there isn't
a an interest in it for me. Someone
walks past me on the street saying, "I
love Formula 1," I'm like, "Hey, mate,
come back in."
Yeah, you're fat. And I hate
For yeah, yeah. And um and the same
again where, you know, I'm I'm not
argumentative away from social media. If
I see people, you know, chatting hate
about me, I don't get involved in it.
I'm not really that that person.
Um
what about Joe Wix? What about that
beef? Do
you know what stirred stirred the pot
there a little bit? You said some
comments to him about
um he said there's some dishonesty there
um regarding what he does. So, this is
something where I haven't gone back on
my word, but about six months ago, I
took the podcast I did about him
offline. Not I just I felt like I've
been a bit harsh. You know, at the time,
I've got 10,000 followers. I've had my
first taste of growth on social media
and like beef and rappers. You need an
arch enemy. You know, you need someone
to be able to go out so you can kind of
go back and forth. I actually emailed
Joe about four years ago, five years,
seven years ago. And um I emailed him
and I I found out that he'd seen one of
my videos and I thought, "Oh [__] I
never expect him to see it ever." I was
posting content. I was, "Oh my god, I
might have hurt someone's feelings." So
I emailed him. I said, "Hey, Joe, just
to let you know, one, I will be coming
for you a bit, but two, you never get
put down by people above you." That's
all I said. And he emailed me back ages
ago. And I continued the endeavor. And
there were still things.
What did he say?
Do you know what? Coming back, I I think
he said something on the lines of he
hadn't had an email like that before. It
didn't stop me, though. So, there were a
few things that frustrated me. One, I
don't like people blanket prescribing
solutions to people. I don't. And
there's I don't like anyone that
presents a solution without education.
You know, the teach a man to fish
analogy. So, I had clients that were
paying me but also bought his plan. So,
straight away there was a bit of a
conflict. And I remember looking through
the supplement stack and I was like
branching amino acids lucine. I was like
well I don't know why you're popping
these lucine pills for my protein.
They're massive like a pelican trying to
swallow each one. I was like unless
you're vegetarian or vegan you don't
really need this then the branch chain
amino acids and I was like you don't
really need to be consuming another six
pills with this. And then I was like
from an ethical standpoint I don't these
people are very overs supplemented for
jumping around the front room. Then
there was the oneizefits-all plan. One
of my clients was a type 1 diabetic who
got sent it and I was like don't eat
that. No, this is not, you know,
specialized for you. And the amount of
volume that was being given to people is
it's very easy to make people tired.
This is what frustrates me as a trainer.
I actually want to stimulate people in
the gym, get them moving. And if there
was ever a boundary of the maximum they
can do, I want to come under that every
day. A lot of people are stressed,
underslept, undernourished, smashing
people in their front room every day, I
don't think, is the solution out of
this. So I picked some holes in the
programming, picked some holes in uh you
know the supplement issue there. But the
main problem is this.
People would have gone there, seen him
on TV, GMTV, seen the book sales and
gone, this is my savior. And when they
fail the plan or don't finish it, which
I think a lot of people do, I think I'm
not saying that objectively, they blame
themselves. And this is what kills me.
So many people, maybe hundreds of
thousands of people would have done a
one-sizefits-all plan, all doing the
same exercise regime. I could not
sustain HIT training at 32 every day in
my front room. It would break me.
When they do eventually fall off that
and the meal plan, cooking everything
from scratch, which again, I mean, we're
sitting next to he that's a market
that's come off the back of people not
wanting to cook from scratch. When they
fail that plan, they're going to blame
themselves. And the voices in their head
are going to say, "I didn't want it
enough. I'm not motivated. I'm not
committed. I'm not cut out for this. And
you can hear in my voice now. This is
something I'm passionate about. It
breaks me to think of the tens of
thousands of people who gave up on their
ambitions because they went the wrong
way for advice. If people love it and
they love cooking from scratch, this
guy's probably the guy for you. Join his
plan, not mine. But it almost felt like
physics. So many people went to
something. It created gravity that other
people went. And it's my
feeling that that let a lot of people
down. And if it didn't, I wouldn't have
experienced so much growth from pointing
out the inadequacies. If people were
truly happy, I would have been shut the
hell up then and I would have just gone
away and not existed on social media.
So what's your plan? How is it
different?
Imagine uh we have you the consumer.
Hello selling. I'm selling you the
consumer. The principle fat loss is a
calorie deficit. Fact that we need to
create an energy deficit. Um just for
anybody that doesn't understand that
means burning more calories than you
consume. And it's it doesn't make it a
simple science but you know let's just
say to people like money in the bank
analogy if you earn too much than you
spend you're going to recruit money in
the bank. That is what fat is. It's not
from toxins. It's not from you know
whatever you're led to believe. Now
everything in between those two how it
works in the person is a method. You
know keto 52 intermittent fasting all of
these are methods that dress up the
principle for the consumer. It's almost
packaging something for the person. With
me, rather than giving them the method
first, I put them straight in bed with
the principle and I say, "Look, this is
how many calories I think you burn on a
daily basis. I think you should try
eating 15% less than that. Here's a
protein target. Go away. If it works,
we've hit it. If it doesn't, we're still
too high. If you gain weight, you know,
we we've really missed the mark here."
This is how it works. Really educate
people to all the things they need to go
like a driving instructor. I should not
exist in your life in six months apart
from the guy that taught you to drive.
Why is it so acceptable for people to
invest money into fitness professionals
and then still be there three years
later?
The PT model is almost flawed in some
respects. If you do your job well
enough, your client leaves. So for me,
even one of my clients that I had face
to face for years, I was on gym for four
years. I said, 'Look, you're going to
pay me more than the rate that you pay
anyone else, but in three months time,
if you can't do this on your own, I'll
give you your money back because I
should be People arrive at fitness like
getting in the car for the first time.
They're like, "What the hell is this
third pedal?" That's a clutch. A clutch,
Dad. What the hell is a clutch? I
remember learning to drive. I thought
there was go and stop. And rather than
just getting in the car and driving, I
need to explain to him, "We need this to
change gears. The indicator must be done
before we start to break. This is your
mirrors." And the fitness world doesn't
have that anymore. There needs to be
some ruthlessness with this where I say
to people, look, this is the education
you need. You need to learn how to do
this for yourself. It's one of those
things where I have a big problem with
people monetizing and not giving that
solution. You know, I think it's so
important that we teach people these
fundamentally so they understand. And
I'm not an extremist. You look at me
now. You know, just before downstairs,
we were talking before the podcast about
have you been on the front cover of
mental health? I was like, no, no, I
don't agree with that. I don't think
these are physiques that are obtainable
to most men in our country. I think, you
know, that's like saying, "Hey, you
can't be happy to earn quarter of a
million pound." Yes, that's great, but
most men won't get there. So, how about
we set the goal something more realistic
at Middleton, another one of your
guests, friend of mine, he got
criticized for not being lean enough for
the men's health cover, we got a guy
climbed Mount Everest, you know, like,
"Oh, sorry, mate. You're not lean
enough. You haven't shaved your chest
recently enough." So it's one of those
things where I think there's a lot of a
lot of work to be done with not only
teaching people how things work but also
in setting the the finish line. So from
entrepreneurship you the new rich I
think is great because we have such
subjectivity between how much money your
business can make. But once you get the
freedom to work remote and live your
life well done you've done it. And I
think that if someone especially men can
get to the point where they're happy to
go for a jog topless you've done it.
They don't have to be abs there. If you
can go for a jog topless or you can, you
know, wear a pair of speedos on holiday,
well done, mate. You've done it. And I
think we need to have that approach with
fitness.
I've had so many people tag me on
Instagram, even on Telegram and in my
Twitter DMs in a picture of them
starting their heel journey. And it's
one of the most amazing things in my
life that I get to do a podcast, which
of course needs money to to to fuel. And
I have a sponsor like Hule who I
genuinely believe is going to help every
single person who starts their heel
journey change their life because this
podcast the central intention of this
podcast is to help people live better
lives. And we get to sit here and I get
to promote to you a product which has
not only helped me change my life but is
going to help millions of people and is
helping millions of people live a
nutritionally complete life. It's so
it's such an incredible product and for
me the reason why it's incredible is
because it gives me my protein. It gives
me my vitamins, minerals. It's
plant-based. It's low in sugar,
gluten-free. It does all of that in a
small drink that tastes good. There are
other products, there's foods, there's
the hot and savory collection, many
other things. But for me, this ready to
drink is the absolute savior of my diet
throughout the week where I'm moving at
such pace. Look, I don't want to labor
the point, but if you haven't tried,
give it a try. And if you do, tag me,
Instagram, wherever you try it, give me
a tag. Anyway, back to the podcast.
you're in the business of helping people
change their lives. Hopefully, that's I
guess that's I'm guessing that's part of
the goal is to help them become a better
version of themselves. And a lot of
people listening to this will have a
friend or they'll have a I don't know a
family member or someone that they they
want to help change their life. What
have you learned about those that
actually do take the steps, commit
change their lives, and those that just
kind of say it? And how do you do you
are you able to identify them super
early and say this person's got no
chance? Is there like a warning sign
where you go there's this person is just
all talk and do you give up at some
point on people?
Uh face to face I had to because there
was a finite amount of energy in which I
could give people and I had to sack
clients and I was sorry someone could
take your slot pay me the same amount of
money but I can make progress with them
and sometimes they come back a different
person. The main thing I learned, I
wrote the first book, not a diet book.
And then I realized there was a
precursor. And my theory is that, you
know, in my videos, in my content, I say
fat people, I say obese, and I use the
cu n t word openly. But I don't think
people are gluttonous and greedy. I
think that, yeah, from an evolutionary
standpoint, it makes sense that if we're
surrounded by copious amounts of adonic
food that we should be consuming it,
because we have done for hundreds of
thousands of years. But people don't
want to be this way. So I came to
realize that so many people before we
look at calorie deficit, we need to look
at other pressing issues. Do you like
your work life? Do you like your
relationships? Because if you come home
from a work you're not passionate about,
from a job you're not passionate about,
and you walk straight in through the
door to a relationship you're not
passionate about, me telling you to eat
less means doing less of the only thing
you might enjoy every day. So there's a
big life constructionist issue that
comes up. And actually, I find as a PT,
I was asking this. I was like, "You
always you're always moaning about your
boyfriend. Why why don't you break up?
Oh, we've been together 5 years." And
since now I now know that's the sunk
cost fallacy where they're making a a
decision based off the previous
investment, not the actual reason if
they want to be in a relationship. So
with the second book, I was like, well,
before we even get into this commitment,
wanting it, do I give up on this person?
I'm like, right, we've got Steve,
repetitive yo-yo dieter, sticks to the
deficit three weeks, then he falls off.
I go, Steve, mate, do you like your job?
you know, do you like it? No. Well, I've
been there eight years. Do you like your
relationship, Steve? Oh, no. You know,
my mister in my head. And all the other
way around. Sabrina's like, "My
boyfriend's a wanker." Whatever it is.
And I've come to realize that if we can
help change those things and those
people's lives, suddenly everything else
seems a lot lot easier. There's a lot
less boundaries, a lot less effort. So,
in a cheesy way, we almost need to
address the foundations that people are
building on because if you haven't got
this and and again, imagine you're in a
job you hate on 50k and you take a pay
cut and start a venture with your best
mate for 30k, you're going to have less
pleasure in your life, less expensive
trainers, less private jets, whatever.
But suddenly you have a job you enjoy.
And if you're getting enough
satisfaction between 7 when you wake up
and four when you come home, you might
need to get it from food. and then they
drop a bit of weight and then they start
feeling better and then they go, "Oh, do
you know what I could do with a bit of
muscle on this arm?" So then they start
going to the gym and then they make
friends there. And so this whole
conversation surrounding, you know,
motivation,
I don't think it's a positive charge
motivation. I think that too many people
are carrying a negatively charged career
and a negatively charged relationship
status. So, you view like a
poor relationship with your diet or food
as more of a symptom of
negativity or lack of fulfillment or
lack of lack of satisfaction in other
areas of your life. Cuz I've actually
been there when I worked in uh so I
worked in sales and I hate phone calls.
So, it was the wrong job for me. I don't
even now when people call me I'm like,
"What do you want?" They're like, "What
do you mean? Are you you're right? I'm
fine until you called me." So, um and I
used to get to work and I used to have
peanut sandwiches, two slices of toast.
I wasn't even hungry. Peanut butter on
one, Nutella on the other. Put them
together. I'm having a 500 calorie just
a bit of toast just to kill time from my
mundane existence at my office. Again,
there there are so many people doing
this. And in my time in corporate, I
realized people are doing the absolute
bare minimum to get by. And I always say
to people, the second you join a big
corporate business, they're going to pay
you the least amount of money for the
most amount of your life. And if you
don't construct how you want your life
to look, they're going to do it. And a
lot of people don't like how that
construction looks like and then they
wonder why they're feeling malas or you
know depressed or disheartened. And it's
because you let someone else build your
life for you. And it's very important
for people to
unattach from that. And then
if they can and this is another thing
where I'm sure you you'll be able to
relate to this. Some of the best things
that have ever happened in my life have
come off the back of opportunities not
going my way and my back's been against
the wall.
Oh yeah. Um, I'll probably get shot
saying this, doing an event uh later on
this year at Sydney Opera House, which
is mad, massive, which um,
for me is an incredible, incredible feat
because four years ago, I remember being
so skinn in Sydney living in a hostel
that I went to Opera Bar to apply for a
job behind the bar and they said, "You
have to have a qualification serve
alcohol." I was like, "I'm not doing
this." I remember reading uh Tim
Ferrris's Tools of the Titans on the
ferry back to where I lived and it goes,
"If someone put a gun to your head,
would you work harder?" I was like, "Oh
[__] yeah, I would. I would call up all
my existing clients, I'd get referrals,
then I call those referrals and I close
them for sales. I give them money back
guarantees. I would quite literally just
do a lot more." And then I came to
realize, "Okay, I'm going to go home and
do that." And within 5 months, I joined
Fitness First and then bought my way out
of it. And it's crazy that people are so
afraid of being in this position where
they leave a career they're unfulfilled
with that they're going to be stuck and
lost. But anything when your back's
against the wall, you find another
version of yourself that works harder
and does more and puts itself into
uncomfortable situations. And my
favorite thing to say to someone is
like, how many times have you let
yourself down really in your life? How
many times have you really woken up and
gone, "Oh, I've really let myself down."
And even if you have, you got out of it.
And most people they haven't. I go, why
the hell do you think you're going to
let yourself down? Now, where's that
come from? Where's that [__]
assumption come from? Probably the
people you hang around with. Probably
the the naysayers in your life that may
be saying it because they want to
protect you. And so many people in that
kind of world of just not fulfillment.
And I always say again, please do not
mistake
passion with being good at something.
Because if I get you to do anything for
three years, you're going to be good at
it. Don't call that passion. You do
recruitment for three years and you can
close people, oh yeah, straight here,
footy 100, I'll get them top four,
whatever. Doesn't mean you're passionate
about it. It means you're good at it.
And people really need to distinguish
that.
There's going to be a ton of people
listening to this now that are in that
situation. They're in a they're on their
way to a job this morning, you know,
that they don't particularly like and
but they're going to say, "Well, James,
I've got a mortgage to pay and I've got
a couple of kids." You know, you'll get
this a lot of time because I get it. I
get it every day. got a couple of kids
and it's easy for you guys to say
because you, you know, you're single and
you got all this money now, but I can't
just leave this call center. James, I've
got Timmy that needs to go to school and
I need to get, you know, buy his books
for his book bag. And what do you say to
those people that are feeling like
they've they've kind of built a wall too
big to climb over?
It's a very difficult one. And again, I
can never say or just do this because
when I'm talking now, I'm talking to
James of 22. similarly to how you would
talk to yourself at 18.
I can't talk to every age group
listening to this podcast. So, I'll try
to talk to the one I know best.
Yeah.
But there's two kind of ways out.
There's one where some people do need to
make a risk because they may see no
options now, but where are they going to
be in 5 years? A lot of the time things
get worse with time, not better in these
situations. Unfulfillment, passionless
existence, all of these things get
worse. If your relationship is on the
rocks, you don't just give it four
years. Something needs to be done.
Sometimes you do need to rip the cord.
But to people who are genuinely past it,
because people did read my second book
and go, I just can't do this. I said to
them, well, okay, make sure your kids
know this. Make sure if there's one
valiant thing you do is fall on the
sword and say, right, for me, I will sit
out the next 10 years. But those kids,
every time I talk to them, every day
they're at the dinner table, every step
they make in life, instill that into
them. My dad said to me, like my whole
life, he's just always said, "You're a
long time dead." He always just drilled
it into me my whole life. Every time
I've wanted to do something, it's like
going to be a long time dead, son. And
there's no It helps me understand there
is no time to to dwell, to wait, to see
things out. And I think that again,
that's one of the things that people
don't think about enough. You know,
we're all slowly dying. It's such a
weird thing to think about. People go, I
just give it a few more years. You don't
have that. Time isn't on our side. Our
existence as a human being is if the
universe could talk, it would laugh at
the amount of time we have to live. And
some people, again, what's the worst
that could truly happen? You got a
mortgage call. Have you got enough to
survive two months?
Two months. And if you can't give
everything to something for two months,
maybe don't do it at all. PE personal
trainers as well. They they say this all
the time at my business talks. Oh, you
know, they're doing minimum wage hours,
six, seven pounds an hour, wiping down
machines between trying to run a
legitimate business and they're afraid
to go alone. I go, if I gave you £7 for
that hour and put you on a gym floor and
gun to the head mentality, you need to
make a business or you're going to wipe
down machines for your whole life. Of
course, they're going to do it. The the
intensity, the audacity, everything they
could give to people is going to be
incredible. I think it's baffling that
people write themselves off before they
even make the decision. And in some
respects, them going, "I've got kids.
I've got a mortgage." I appreciate all
of those things, but is this a [__]
hurdle you're putting in front of making
change in your life? I could be wrong. I
don't know, but it could be.
They need to ask themselves that. I
can't ask them that.
One of the things you said that was
really interesting, you said, "I don't
feel deserving of my success." And I've
I've heard you talk a little bit about
imposter syndrome. Do you suffer with
imposter syndrome?
I kind of back out of it very quickly
every time I I feel the emotion.
Everything to me is just weird. It's
just weird. People in selfie, I'm like,
"Yeah." I'm like, "This is a weird part
of my day. Let's embrace it. This is
something that up until 27, no one ever
stopped me for a photo or acknowledge my
work." 32 now, give or take 15% of my
life. So for 85% of my life, that never
happened. So everything to me it's just,
you know, I I joke around at the
speaking events. I go, "Hey, I'm going
to get found out soon. Until then, I'm
going to milk this for everything I
can." I do I do feel it a lot. It's a
strange one, especially at home. Like,
uh, I go out my mom and dad, someone
will say, "Oh, James, can I get a
picture?" I now chaper owner my dad when
he goes into London. We went to
Twickingham a few weeks ago, and I don't
particularly like going to watch
sporting events anymore. It's cold, you
know, the trains are so crammed, all of
this. But if my dad's going, "I'll come
with you. I'll make sure no one barges
into you." Especially when people are
exting like, "Fuck off."
And um
purple belt.
Yeah. Yeah. Watch out, mate. And um even
I see it on my dad's face. He's like
he's like, "But he he doesn't my parents
don't have social media. They don't they
don't exist in that world, but I can
tell they're kind of proud of it." And I
was like, "Do you know what? If my
parents are proud of this weirdness,
I'll embrace it." And I'll happy to
embrace it. But yeah, it's just
incredibly strange. It's again why I
need someone else to negotiate all rates
and what I get paid and speaking
appearances because whenever even
getting the invite for this podcast I
was like [__] you hell.
I was like I hope I can keep up the
conversation for an hour. I have the
biggest fear whenever I have guests on
my podcast. I'm like what if I run out
of things to ask after half an hour?
Where does that come from? That sort of
like that almost self-doubt and insec
almost insecurity. I think that a lot of
my confidence, not not all of it, but a
big chunk of it is a facade, an
essential facade. I need to play the
character. Confidence to me isn't about
who you are. It's about who you need to
be. It's about how how I need to talk in
this interview, how I need to present
myself, the things I need to get
passionate about. In some respects, when
that fades,
you know, I'm just a PT on a gym floor
in Bratal. I worked on a, you know, a
trading estate for three, four years.
And the craziest thing is I was happy. I
was happy then. I wouldn't you come meet
me four or five years ago. Hey James,
mate, how's your life? I wouldn't blow,
you know, [__] hell. I could do with
a bit more money, you know, I could do
with, you know, an expensive watch. It
was never like that. I used to ridicule
my clients for flying business and
buying Rolexes. I was like, what a waste
of money. Now to my other friends, I'm
like, you should really try business.
And um yeah, I've definitely had a
complete flip on that. I don't know
where it comes from to be but to be be
honest it's probably a I spent a lot of
time with my family and my friends I
don't really have any mega successful
influencer friends everyone's pretty
grounded and we all think that we're
getting away with murder charging money
for things so I think it probably comes
from that but from what you said as well
you spent the first at least 15 years of
your life being indirectly told that you
shouldn't aim so high and not much is
going to happen in your life right
it was when I first became a PT this
changed where I remember listening to
podcasts, reading books, studying
topics, and one day it clicked. I was
like, I'm never going to be in the best
shape, never going to be the most
muscular, never going to be the most
experienced. And I was like, I could be
a good communicator because these
podcasts I'm listening to are dull as
[__] I listen to a 56-inute podcast on
caffeine.
I managed to turn it into an academy
module that was two and a half minutes,
right?
That's all they needed. And I thought,
there's a gap in the market here. And it
becomes a snowballing effect where maybe
even the same with yourself where at the
beginning you're like I understand the
operational part of a business. I
understand investorship then when you
see the returns on your efforts you're
like oh I'm actually quite good at this
and you get all these confirmations that
occur along the way. And I think it's
more that if I'm honest I still struggle
to communicate with myself that I'm an
authority on things. I actually need
external validation still quite a lot
which I've never really told anyone
before. We've spoken about quite a few
things today that I've never really
spoken about.
And even there are always little battles
that can be won and lost. And some days
I'm like I do lose belief in who I need
to be.
And do you know what? Actually, content
creation for me really helps me with
that. Because whenever I'm having a day
where I'm like, [__] do I really know
what I'm talking about? I will just
express something I feel wholeheartly
about and see how it goes. And when it
[__] blows up, I go, oh, maybe I do
know what I'm on about. Carry on. That's
a dangerous game to play because on the
other end, if you're if external
validation is moving you up, it's like
impossible for it not to move you the
other way. So if someone DMs you and
goes, you are you are you don't know
what the [__] you're talking about.
Vegans are you know this and keto a keto
vegan is the best way to be surely that
moves you too. No,
it does. And sometimes if I if I do get
a really, you know, harsh criticism, I
don't take it from an emotional level. I
take it from an objective level. I I
actually do this a lot. If someone
criticized me on something, I go before
I think he's a [__] he could be
right. So, I give him the benefit of the
doubt and I'll go to someone smarter
than me. I'm like, just to double check,
I'm right on this topic. And I think
that's a good way to protect myself from
it. Every time someone says, you're
wrong on this subject. I don't go, "Hey,
[__] you. I got more followers than
you." I'm like, "Oh, [__] I best go
away and research this." And I actually
use the little troll attack sometimes to
reconfirm my position on something. If
someone goes, you know, you swear too
much in your content, I'll like I I'll
reflect on it. Am I swearing too much?
Is this how I got here?
Dangerous game to play that. Like it is.
We all play it. I'm not I'm not
pretending. I'm just playing devil's
advocate to ask good questions here. But
that
Yeah. If you if you're relying on other
people to validate you, then their words
can also invalidate you theoretically.
So do you struggle with that being
then? Then I would just remove myself
from the situation on the social media
side of things and I'd be like, "Okay,
I'd sit with my thoughts." And again, do
you know what? I remember you saying
this word just before we went live.
Psychedelics really helped me with this,
but psychedelics also got in my head a
couple times. For people that don't know
too much about psychedelics, I've always
said to people, it's like therapy with
yourself. You're not always the the guy
that holds all the answers, but you're
at least the person that has the
questions. I remember did a magic
mushroom trip and one of the questions I
was poised with was, "Do people like you
for who you are or what you do?"
I was like, "Oh, I'm going to need a few
weeks."
[__] hell.
I'm going need a bit of time for this
because I was like, "How many of my
followers actually know who I am?"
That's my first defense when someone
criticized me. I'm like, "You don't know
me." I'm like, "Oh, if they don't know
me, what do they like me for?" It's
like, "Fuck."
I'm still figuring it out. M.
So I think that there's definitely a lot
of conversations and internal dialogues
in which that I'm still breaking down.
And that's another thing that people
can't understand about psychedelics.
Some of the things you're poised with in
question with can take months, sometimes
years to unravel.
It's one of the things with building an
identity, isn't it? You then it's easy
to to start to believe you you are your
identity. And that's not always a
helpful thing because it can take you
further and further away from who you
actually are. And I think all the the
mental health research is clear that
when we abandon ourselves because we've
built up a persona, then it can be very
costly for the person we truly are. And
and I actually think that continual
faking from what I've learned from my
guests is is really really harmful. So
it must be somewhat difficult, right?
Like creating the separation because
you're not the guy that I've met today
is not the guy that I've seen on
Instagram telling me that I'm a fat
prick. Like it's not these aren't the
joking. These aren't the same
individual. So, how do you kind of
disassociate from that?
I think Jim Kerry said something about
taking the mask off.
He goes, "Depression is when you have to
take the mask off and say, I don't want
to do this anymore."
And for me, very fortunately, it's 3
minutes a day. I'm this person. So,
hours on TV, s in front of loads of
people. But then sometimes what I do
like is I purposely
I call it a cuntive. I do a post that
catches all the constitive and I
sometimes purposefully as hard as I can
try and get people to unfollow me with I
just say something brutally honest. I go
in as hard as I can with the objective
of losing a few thousand followers
because then I can kind of tighten the
the the area the remit of people which I
talk to. And I remember in middle of
summer I was like this is [__] Just
honestly I was like we're kind of out of
lockdown but we're not. Still got to do
tests to go travel. We're pretending
it's the new normal but it's not the new
normal. And I I just expressed my
emotions without the facade and no one
barely even noticed. And I was like
that's that's good. That means there's
not this big transient period between I
am just in it's not a different person.
It's more enthusiasm which I think again
is a very important thing because like
part I always say that my talks are
between a TED talk and standup. I need
to ensure that I can tiptoe the line of
retaining the audience, keeping them in,
entertaining the audience at the same
time. So there is a requirement. Jimmy
Carr, when you met him, you wouldn't, if
you listen to that podcast, first half
an hour, you wouldn't go, he's a funny
[__]
You'd go, "This is a very intelligent
person." So I completely appreciate
where he comes from as well. For me, I
don't think there's too much separation.
I think you wouldn't sit with me now and
go,
"That's a completely different person."
You would go, "Okay, this isn't
Instagram, James." Yeah, it's a
caffeinated. Yeah. Um, you said the word
depression there. One of the things you
wrote about in your book is anxiety as
well and your own experience with
anxiety. Tell me about that. That's
something that
Well,
you sleep with people and they can say
anything. That's one that creeps up on
you over time where you can have I
remember once waking up to a to a
message saying, "Relax. This is fine.
It's all being dealt with." But one of
your ex-girlfriends in a Facebook group
community for moms has said, "Do you
think it's okay if I make up a story
about my ex? I will take the money from
the story and give it to my son." So, we
had that screenshotted. We had that
locked down so if it did go to the press
straight away, we can have it taken
down. And I was like, "Wow, I thought we
were on good terms 10 years ago or
whatever it was." And that then gets
your mind working. You go, "What if I
rub someone the wrong way? What if
someone changes their stance on you?
What if you know I have a joking
altercation with someone in a bar which
they then misconstrue? What if I
genuinely want to, you know, be ignorant
on a subject and someone construdes that
as a facicious attempt to insult
someone? So there's a lot of anxiety
that I carry because not everyone
watching is watching you succeed. A lot
of people watching you want to see you
fall and they're waiting at that very
opportunity and that is quite tough
because
there are going to be a lot of people
that are out to just not see me be
happy.
So that's where the anxiety stems from a
lot of the time. You have the general
life anxiety like oh hope hope I don't
get cancer this year. You know one of
those things. I've had friends that
never made it to 30. Some of my rugby
teammates uh that you know find a lump
in the testicle on a Friday's off by
Sunday dead within 10 months. And I
think about that a lot. So I think it's
important to have that anxiety as well.
I'm not guaranteed to live to 60. You
know, I'm not guaranteed to see my book
release. So for the publishers sake that
I get finished, but
so there's there are anxieties, but I
work proactively to override them. You
know, uh Mark Twain, I've had many
worries in my life, most of which never
happened.
So I I think that I've got the wisdom
especially of Stoics to these anxious
traits are not new. They've existed for
a lot longer than we could imagine. So
you do carry that around. I get drunk.
You know, oh did I put something on the
story? You know, I know that drunk James
can say things, but I know he'd never do
things. He's not inappropriate. He's not
a groper. He's not disrespectful to
women or any of those things. So I'm
fine with that. But then I do carry this
small amount of anxiety because the
higher you climb, the further you fall.
And when you feel like your life is a
fairy tale, you hope it has the fairy
tale ending and you're like, I hope I'm
not the one that, you know, this is
going too well. Like you're at a
gambling table, you keep winning on red,
eventually I'm going to lose everything.
I think about that a lot. So I think
that's what keeps me straight.
How do you defend yourself from being
canceled? What's your sort of philosophy
uh for that? For me, my my thing, and
Aunt Middleton, I think, reaffirmed this
for me, Jordan Peterson reaffirmed this
for me as well, is if I never can try to
convince anybody that I'm something I'm
not. If I never try and convince them
that I'm like a really good guy or that
I'm like morally perfect, they'll never
be able to call out contradiction. And
really, a lot of the time, people
getting cancelled is because they um
tried to pull the wool over your eyes
about their like moral compass. And it
explains why Jimmy Carr can sit here and
go, I mean, this is slightly different
because it's comedy, but Jimmy Car can
sit there and go, "Oh, [__] the over
70s, the Delta variant wiped them out."
Or rappers can talk about all the
misogynistic things they talk about,
whatever. No one's going to leave any
hate on their videos or in the because
they never gave us the expectation of
other otherwise. It's usually the people
that quite often it's the people that
are our prime ministers or our
politicians or have inherited this moral
high ground that we go, "Oh, you had a
Christmas party."
It's I'm I stand with very controversial
opinions as well surrounding I'm very
pro- drug legalization. I think that,
you know, I've got family members in the
police force. I wish they were dealing
with real real crime. Yeah. And I think
that we could abolish a lot of
drugrelated crimes by legalization. I
think we should tax and we should
quality control. I don't think it's
going to be a net positive for society,
but I don't think exactly right now it
is any better. So, with standpoints like
that and people go, James, have you done
cocaine? I go, yes. You know, have you
done MDMA? Yeah, last weekend. You know,
I'll always be honest with people and
that does give you a drop off of
followers, but
I I fil them out early so that they can
come in, they can go and that's not to
be sexist or to talk about female
genitalia. That is to use another
polarizing word. So, I'll be transparent
with that. Similar to Danny Dier got
caught and sees TV doing a line and was
like, "Oh, it's just Danny." You know,
he never tried to.
There is there is the the anti- you
know, cancelellable effect of that uh
you know, even when single being very
transparent with needs and wants through
messages so that if someone was to look
through, you know, a trail of it, you'd
be like, "Well, we've made it very clear
that was the position he was in." So,
I'm always trying to maintain an
anti-cancellable thing. I haven't got
TV. I haven't got radio. I've actually
probably had 12 minutes of TV time in
four or five years, I think, because a
lot of TV networks don't want to get
cancelled. So, um, if you were to pull
the plug on all my media tomorrow, I'd
probably see a 1% drop off on on
engagement. And, you know, I'm very
honest with all my clientele, the the
people that really matter to me are book
buyers, academy members, and talk
attendees. I don't believe that any of
my actions would ever deter them from
their interest in me,
which kind of makes me uncancellable,
you know. Yeah. And I'm not too worried
about that. I've been thinking a lot
lately about like the there's a few
types of imprisonment in life. There's
physical imprisonment. You can put me in
jail. And the other type of
imprisonment, which I think is probably
even worse, is like the mental
imprisonment, which is we're going to
decide what you can think and say, um,
and who you are. And like I really don't
want that. So how do I have to design my
life to make sure that I never get
mentally imprisoned. I never go to
mental jail. And one of them is building
enough resources so that even if you
turned off my revenue streams, the ones
you could turn off, I'm still good. The
other is things like this, which is this
is my own show. Don't sell it to Spotify
or someone else because then there is a
guy that could pull the plug. And I
really I've really started to think
about this idea of like designing an
uncancellable life so that you could be
mentally free in a world where we're all
[__] virtue signaling and trying to
fit in and be correct.
You know, jail. I like that. I said that
in book three.
Yeah. Well, it's a race. You can get it
in a book first.
I think um yeah, you're you're
incredibly correct. And I think that you
know I don't have a huge amount in
savings, but I think I could live three
years on that. You know, I went to I
went to Asia for six months when I was
younger. And in six months, I spent
three and a half thousand pounds.
Yeah.
Wasn't staying in the nicest places, but
I spent time there. So sometimes I'm
like, "Hey, if the world goes to [__] I
got 10 years in Thailand. Let's go." I
just train jiu-jitsu. Don't cost me
anything. Laundry, whatever.
So I always do that. And I actually I
wrote about this one in my books. I
remember I ate in a steak restaurant in
Sydney once on the beach and the waiter
that served us, really nice guy, young
guy. And uh I looked at him and I went,
"Oh, I could have your life. You know,
you probably serve steak in the
restaurant. Probably get good tips.
You're in Sydney. You probably work 6:00
p.m. to 11 most nights, maybe 5, six
nights a week. I could surf during the
day and get a dog and train jiu-jitsu.
If I was to do that every day for the
next 30 years, I would have a better
life than 99% of people on the planet.
So with the cancelable thing, I almost
think like if I was to get cancelled,
oh, I won't have to use my phone as
much. You know, as long as I can get
into a country that I that I genuinely
love, I always say to myself, I'll open
a jiu-jitsu dojo in a small town in
Australia. I've got door knocking
experience. I used to door knockock for
Empire. I used to have to knock on 100
doors to sell gas and electric to people
that already had gas and electric. How
much easier would it be to sell
jiu-jitsu memberships? Hey, come down.
First week's free, whatever. I in the
same way not only like to have the
uncancable life, I like to have a a get
out plan that can sometimes be better
than my current existence. So, it's one
of those things where I was like um
yeah, I do think about that a lot and
that's why you have family trusts, isn't
it?
Yeah, exactly.
Behind. But no, I think it is one of
those things where especially with
Dragon's Den and you going on BBC, there
is a expectation of of who you are and
the mental jail you talk about I
experienced in the corporate world where
I was in recruitment, high-end
recruitment and they said, "What'd you
get up to at the weekend?" The truth was
I was on an away bus to exit playing
rugby and I got dick of the day. So we
had to do Edward cider hands where they
duct tape bottles of cider to my hands
and I had to drink about three liters of
cider pretty much to break myself free.
They put a bin bag around me and I puked
in it for the most of the way back.
I was like, "Yeah, just went out for
dinner with my friends."
And then having that same conversation
everyone, good weekend. Oh, lovely.
Thanks. Went out for dinner with my
friends. I couldn't even express myself,
which is you do feel like you're behind
bars. And I used to have to wear a shirt
and tie, clean shaven. I wasn't even
client facing most time. And I get I'd
get [__] for not shaving. And where I
just wanted to go, why do I need to
[__] shave? I'd be like, okay, yeah,
of course. I'll get the dick out
tomorrow. It
and that builds up. That angst builds
up. And for a lot of people that do
suffer mental jail, I think that's
another reason martial arts saves them.
They can save that angst. They can save
that frustration and channel it later in
the day. M
I have big worries over people that
don't have an outlet for breaking out of
jail.
Oh yes. Yeah.
And they probably then turn to alcohol
and violence and getting punchups or
whatever it is. So I feel that human
beings I believe we're quite combative.
I think that you watch kids have play
fights. They're not trying to hurt each
other. Sometimes they are.
Give them a set of rules. Get them into
it. Let them express that. But yeah, the
two things. One, if people are in that
mental jail, they need a way out to
express them. And if they are in a
mental jail, they need to create
long-term solutions to not be in there
because
not expressing yourself in life, like
you say, I've never thought of it like
that. I think that's really profound.
Mental jail where in some sense being
mentally behind bars must be harder than
even worse.
Yeah.
You see it in one of the examples I've
given on this podcast a number of times
is in their LGBTQ community where
because they are when people are unable
to express even their sexuality, the
suicide rates go up. you know, before
they've quote unquote, I don't like the
term, but come out the closet. And when
you look at the things that are
prescribed in the more holistic mental
health treatments as being good for
mental health, it's things like um
creating music or doing art or even like
dancing and like things like yoga. And
expression for me is something that I
learned later in life is actually
writing books or doing a podcast. I
mean, that's therapy, right? That's when
people go to therapy, they do they they
express themselves, they let it out.
Look at men that don't express
themselves. It's the single biggest
killer of suicide. So, let's think. So,
we know mental prison is a real thing
and we know the consequences are severe.
The question becomes, how much are you
imprisoning yourself mentally? How much
are you doing that in your day-to-day
life? How much? Like, and you're
completely right and I'm so glad that's
where you went with it, which is like
you need to find a way in your life
where you get a chance to express
yourself. The cell walls are closing in
on that jail. You've got to find a way
whether it's [__] this is why this is
why I got a bit of a problem with the
nature of social media and the and the
you're marked on how correct you are not
how true to yourself you are. It's all
about correctness typically. It's funny
because it's actually not but it feels
like it is. We've seen it. I mean the
reason part of the reason why you
identified yourself as winning was
because you weren't correct. But it
feels like the the the rewards are
reserved for those that are correct.
Pierce Morgan's the same. the most
uncorre like uncorrect person you'll
meet in our look at the [__] numbers
he's this guy does you know so I just I
don't know I'm very passionate about
that topic of
it's interesting you say that because
today if people go back and actually
listen to me talking about adoption
they'll see that I'm struggling to talk
about it because I've never I've spoken
about it maybe 10 times in my life to
that extent ever online offline whatever
yet we've never met before but the
medium in which we've decided to
communicate being podcasting has allowed
us to both express our true deep
emotions surrounding situations which is
this dynamic in which has been created
with you know the the listening world of
people that are interested and two
people colliding I think it's great and
like you say it's incredibly therapeutic
and it's so difficult now to create a
medium of distractionless conversation
where you know it's it's almost a dying
breed but at the same time being
reenergized
by people looking to sit down and do it
conversations dying two years ago went
away to Melbourne with two friends. I
said, "I'm [__] sick to death of
social media. We're going away with no
electronic devices." And I couldn't
believe how deep our conversations were
at dinner, no phones.
And um we get to Melbourne and my friend
comes around the corner. He's just had a
pee. He goes, "Mate, this looks like a
comedy sketch. I'm there with a soduku
book." He thought he's like, "Mate, I
thought you were taking the piss. I
thought you were trying to make me laugh
as I came around the corner. You're
genuinely in a soduku book." I was like,
"Yeah, mate. What am I going to do for
the rest of the day?" We went to the
cinema without our phones. We went out
for dinner without our phones and the
conversations we were having were so
much more in-depth. I was uncovering
problems that my friends were having. I
was like, I live with you and you've not
told me this.
And uh yeah, it's it's one of those
things where I'm very grateful to
podcasting because it allows me to get a
lot off my chest as well.
Yeah.
And like you say, there aren't the
mediums for people to get things off
their chest, whether physical or verbal.
And I just hope that the way the world's
moving becomes more like that. And
again, if you want to express yourself
on social media, for me, doing that was
the win, not the followers that I was
acrewing from it. That was a bonus. That
was like salt and pepper on top of the
meal. Just putting something I felt
strongly out every day made me feel
good.
That's what I got addicted to. Same way
email. Writing the emails is what made
me feel good. The what happens after
that from a business perspective is
erroneous, irrelevant, it doesn't really
matter. So for so many people out there,
even if you do a podcast and 10 people
are listening, mate, you've won the
battle before they've downloaded it, I
think that the more people that can
understand that, the better. Quick one,
this is maybe a good segue to talk about
a little bit of an announcement I have
to make, which is we have a brand new
sponsor for the podcast. And some of you
who've seen my social media posts will
know that I often wear a lot of jewelry.
And the brand that I'm wearing when you
see the chains on is a brand called
Crafted. As you can see on the table in
front of me if you're watching this on
YouTube, Crafted are a brand that sell
really meaningful, affordable men's
jewelry. So, I reached out to the
founders of Crafted, Alex and Danny, and
asked them if they wanted to sponsor the
podcast, and they said they did. They
listen to the podcast. They like what we
do here. The podcast is a place of
meaning, and their jewelry is all about
meaning. And so, we forged a new
partnership. The piece of jewelry I wear
the most, I want to introduce you to the
pieces and why I wear them is this sand
timer. unsurprising for me about sand
timer is it's probably the most clear
reminder that our time here on Earth is
finite. So, as the episodes go on, I'll
introduce a piece of jewelry and I'll
tell you the meaning it has for me and
why I wear it. Let's talk about love
then. You mentioned love a couple of
times. You referenced that you weren't
so good at it by what you were saying
there in terms of romantic relationships
and love. What's your uh what's James
like when it comes to that department?
This is interesting because I feel
already. Do you ever criticize yourself
before someone's criticized you? I get
in there early. People are I always
think about what they're gonna say.
Yes. Okay. So, yeah.
So, then they go, "Well, in the last 10
years, you haven't had a relationship
that lasted over a year." Correct. Does
that make me bad at relationships or
good? Because I will not I will not and
this could be an idealistic utopian
desire that I may I could be completely
wrong on this, but whenever I have the
feeling that this ain't it, I'm out.
I could either be a genius or I could
have a fixed mindset when it comes to
relationships. This is what I'm figuring
out. Business, something goes bad, I'm
like, "Mate, leave it with me. Give me a
laptop. Prep bag get and a coffee. Let's
do this. Give me my phone. I'll sort it
out." Relationships. I'm like, "Nah,
there's no hope. There's no hope.
Sorry." Uh, I've also I've got [__]
before for breaking up by text.
Sometimes I'm like, "I just need to deal
with this now." They're like, "Oh, we'll
meet you tomorrow." I'm like, "No, I
can't sleep until I deal with this.
Sorry, this isn't working out. We can
meet tomorrow if you want, but I'm
ending it now." So, it's a two-sided
sword where one, I think that I have
these utopian standards that one day
I'll be able to turn around and go, I
was correct. This is what I wanted. And
the other side, the other part of my
conscious is like maybe you're not
willing to do the work like you would in
other areas of your life.
Do you value the I guess the idea, but
do you would you value a romantic
relationship in your life? Yeah, I would
very much like so psychedelic experience
I had in the last year was really helped
me decide I want to have kids.
It was
You do want to have kids?
I do want to have kids like one because
when I have a child it'll be the only
biological relative I've ever met which
is a powerful thing. I think that that's
going to be
incredible for me like to see my
features in another human.
That blows my mind and it gets me very
excited. So there's that. And I remember
me and my friend, and some people
straight away will be angry that I'm
talking about illegal drug use, but me
and my friend put our phones down for 10
hours, went to a park with a picnic, had
a speaker, and we sat opposite a lake,
and we just talk [__] out. And I
remember this dad coming by with his
kid, and they had bread to give the
ducks. And I was like, I was kind of
watching, not in a creepy way. And I
thought to myself, like, this is what
life is. The dad at some point gives it
over to the son. The son then gives it
over to the duck. And I was like, what a
shame it'd be if the kid refused to give
the bread to the duck. I was like, what
a sad ending to the story that would be.
And I went off in my mind thinking about
life and thinking about the opportunity.
And my parents sacrificed a lot for me.
You know, they had to go to the adoption
home. It's spent spend years. They had
to, you know, my mom uh was infertile.
She couldn't have kids that they went
through so much trauma to get day one
with me. And I thought, [__] And then
from day one till now, the school runs,
the me being a [__] as a teenager,
puberty, I was bad, like all of these
things. And I think everything I have
now that I love is because of the
sacrifices they made. And with life, I
think soon my time will come to make
that same sacrifice. I have to pay this
forward. I think that I'll be hardwired
to want to. So sometimes when I'm 32 and
I'm thinking, [__] I I need to start
focusing on love more because I don't
want to be 40 with the most money, the
most followers, and have no one around
me when all my friends settled down and
had families and I'm the creepy [__]
uncle who's banging hot 22-y olds every
weekend. I don't want that. So I need to
make sure that I don't arrive at the
wrong finish line. That's a very, very
important thing. That would be the worst
thing in the world.
Why? Because I think ultimately the the
only way we can really enjoy things is
to share them with people. And this is
my favorite thing I've ever done with my
money is is buy people ludicrous things.
You know, I with my friends, I lie to
them. I say to them, um, I'm banging a
girl who works for BA. Give me your
flight details. I'll get you upgraded
and then I'll upgrade them.
And they'll hate me for it. They're
like, you [__] prick. You shouldn't
have done that. You know, but then when
they land wherever they got and they're
like, mate, that was the best flight of
my life. I love doing that. And I'd love
to do that in a family setting as well.
The look on a kid's face when they go on
holiday or or whatever it is. And for
me, that's an integral part. Spending
money on yourself is a short-term fix. I
think if you buy something for yourself,
it's pleasure. If you buy something
someone else, it's happiness.
If I buy myself a Lamborghini, I'll be
excited for 3 months. If I buy someone
else a Lamborghini, I'll be excited for
the whole time they drive it.
So, the prospect of family to me is not
only a long-term investment into their
lives, but the long-term investment into
my own happiness. Mhm.
And you know, it it's like an ultimate
project for me that I'm really excited
about. And I think that one of the most
important and integral things I value
about financial freedom and working only
a few hours a day is my dad said this to
me once, so I'll never forget him saying
it. He goes, "I wish I'd spent more time
with you when you were growing up to me
and my sister." I was like, "Fucking
hell." It's like, "Dad, like, you know,
he he commuted to the city every day for
50 years, worked in the same company,
King William Street, 50 years." And so
he would leave the house at 6:30 and get
back at 7:00 p.m. And when I heard that,
I was like, one, I never felt that way,
but two, I won't make that same mistake.
So, for me, it's going to be a big part
of my life in time to then set someone
else up to experience everything I've
experienced. Because if I do that right,
dying won't be such a big problem. Like
now my biggest problem is that if I did,
you know, and hate to say it, don't want
to jinx myself. If I did get cancer next
year, my biggest regret would not be
having kids. I hate to talk about tragic
illnesses or whatever,
but one of my very good friends, um, his
name is Paula Lima. He was very badly
affected by COVID and he had to be
hospitalized. He was in hospital bed,
which is funny cuz he's quite literally
a fitness model. If you look at the Maxi
Muscle tubs of protein, he was the
six-pack on the front really. So, um,
incredible shape, all of that. And I
said to him, "What was it like?" And he
goes, "Just so happy I had my kids and
that they'll be looked after." He was
like that. He almost had a, he won't
mind me saying this, a sense of
accomplishment on quite literally what
could have been his deathbed. I thought,
"Fuck, I could do with some of that."
It's so remarkable how you see people's
lives and priorities switch when they
have kids. And you just you know it's
coming because all of my friends that
have had kids they always I wish I'd
done it sooner or you really wish you
know that kind of narrative of like
there's this profound sense of meaning
that we're yet to discover. Have you
ever thought about so let's say human
beings as we know them have existed for
hundreds of thousands of years. The
lineage the amount of grandparents great
great grandparent how many how many
times has a baby
been produced in that lineage?
Thousands.
All it took, all it would ever take
through hundreds of thousands of years
of lineage was one person to not want to
do it or you know they obviously didn't
have quite the choice back then but all
it would have taken was one person to
break that chain and so many of us
wouldn't exist now. I think about this
all the time like my biological mother
who gave me up for adoption. She could
have ended the chain there. If anything,
you know, I'm still very much pro-choice
and I feel like I have a voice to say
that because if my biological mother had
ch chosen to abort me, then I wouldn't
have a life. All it would take is one
break in that chain of lineage for me
not to exist. And I'm like, that's too
much hard work that's gone on before me.
You think the majority of the human race
has existed in poverty, in the cold, in
famine, in all of these things. I'm
like, I can't stop the buck here for
what a selfish life, you know, for
layans and to get a full night's sleep.
I once asked my followers on Instagram
whether they regretted having kids and
the poll substantially was more in favor
of people regretting it. But I think
yeah it was it was quite literally if
you could go back and not have kids
would you? And it was like a 4951 but
it's circumstantial.
I can imagine they're like yeah you know
the grass is always greener. All right.
You have kids they keep you awake the
little shits all of this. Stop you
having sex with your wife. Whatever it
is and it's all too easy to just go a
[__] yeah. You know, I wish I had my
young life yet, but
I've never truly met a rich, successful
single person without kids with a life
that I envy. I
mean, like even Danarian, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I quite I don't idolize him. I've just
listened to some of his podcasts. He's
like, "Yeah, you know, like I have
multiple girlfriends. I'm the only guy
they've uh you know, I've never never
been lied to by." I sometimes look and I
go, "I feel sorry for you a little bit.
I feel sorry for you." And I even I joke
to my friends. I'm like, I have the
perfect amount of success. I almost I'm
worried to have too much more. Too many
temptations, too easy. You know, when
when things become we live in an age
where our devices are too replaceable,
you know, uh new iPhone comes out,
suddenly the old ones obsolete. See you
later, whatever it is. I never want that
to be the same with people. And that's
where I feel that successful wealthy men
go. When they don't, you're falling on
the sword to have a family. It's
sacrifice. It isn't always a net
positive decision for your lifestyle.
There's more meaning to it than people
allude to. And I think when faced with
the decision myself of whether or not I
want to do it, I'm need to say what's
the opposite? Well, what else am I going
to do? You know, there's pleasure and
happiness again so different. I say to
people that everyone has access to
happiness. Some don't know it, but they
do. All have access to happiness. Not
everyone has access to pleasure. And you
can live a life of happiness without
pleasure. But you cannot live a life of
pleasure without happiness. And the
second you try and fill your quot of
happiness with pleasure, you end up
going down dark holes, drugs, alcohol,
sex, whatever it is. And people being
unaware of that decision to be proactive
in the pleasure pursuit. When really the
getting woken up by the kids, the taking
the kids to school, your kid going
through puberty giving you [__] was
really the happiness under your nose the
whole time that you never really knew
about. So, I don't have an anecdote to
unhappiness, but I think I have a good
clue on what would bring me a life of
happiness. I've had enough pleasure so
far. I'm tired. So, what work would you
have to do then in terms of getting
getting yourself into a romantic
relationship? When I think about my
myself, I think, well, if I'm going to
be the kind of guy that could offer what
I imagine my wife would want me to
offer, I'm probably going to have to
change this or be a bit more like this.
I have to work on this thing that I do
because I'm a bit of a dick there. What
are those things for you?
So, this is an interesting one. I think
I need to start working on myself and
being a better human. I don't think I've
been a great human in a lot of my
relationships. I think that I've been
selfish and I think that I've made bad
decisions and then I've blamed the other
person for it cuz I haven't I haven't
accepted that it was me being a bad
person that caused that emotion.
certainly something I've been reading
some books like uh I read attached and
came to terms with my avoidant
relationship style. There's something I
really want to work on and I think that
moving forward I need to yes respect my
partner but I need to respect myself and
hold myself to higher standards. I think
that if I can hold myself to higher
standards I will quite simply be a
better human. And I think that I need to
start taking more responsibility for
things because so many things in life
you can
work your way out of and you can, you
know, change and develop and and build
to it. And I need to put that attitude
into relationships. I'm not saying it's
easy, but I'm saying it's it's needs to
be done. So I think that I have work to
be done. And I think I just need to
communicate that with whoever I'm with
and just say, "Look, if you look at my
books, I'm great. You look at my
academy, I'm great. Live talks, give me
sell out the O2, I'll be great.
Relationships, I got some [__] work.
I'm coming with baggage." So, you know,
as long as someone is open and accepting
of that. I think that's the first
hurdle. I don't think I've ever sat that
down before. I think that when I've
arrived at relationships before, I'm
like, "Well, babe, I'm going to be a lot
more interested than anyone else you
[__] dated, and that has to go.
You say you you need to be a better
human. Give me just a couple of
specifics when you say better human
because that's quite broad.
You get quite a lot of options being
well known having an Instagram inbox.
You have a lot of temptations. You have
there are there are quite frankly women
that I've I've even met on nights out
and I say, "Hey, I've got a girlfriend."
And they go, "I don't care." And they
say, "I'm not going to tell her." And
having that means that you have to raise
the level of who you are. You are no
longer just a 32-y old warm-blooded
male. You have, you know, options in
front of you. This these are more
difficult to say no to because one of
the biggest issues I believe men have
with the dating scene is they need to
win a woman's trust. When you are
wellknown, they already have the trust.
It's danger lurking at the door. It's
opportunities. It's, you know, so many
of these things to rise to that
challenge is no easy feat. And that's
why I believe so many men have fallen.
It's a self-destructive pattern as well
because so many men have amazing
families, beautiful wives, and great
kids, and they just lost that ability to
be a strong man for one hour and it's
gone.
It's a tough ask. It's a tough
challenge. But then everything has been
so far. None of this has particularly
been easy. It's been enjoyable, but it's
not been easy. So, that's something that
I'm going to have to work on. But I want
to revel in that because my mom and dad
are still together. That's, you know,
something that I'm grateful for. And
it's something that they still argue.
They still have bickers. You know, my
dad made my mom cry the other day saying
she's going shopping too much because of
the COVID rates. And I was like that.
It's crazy to see. My dad can't even
watch the gory part of a film, but [__]
he's a strong human. He stayed in the
same business for 50 years. He stayed in
the same relationship 50 years. I think
it's about time that I like took
inspiration from them on things outside
of business.
Lastly, is you were writing a book about
confidence.
Confidence. I let you say that first
just in case I was letting the cat out
of the bag, but you're writing a book
about confidence. Why are you doing
that? And what have you learned from
starting that process? It's something
that really I wouldn't come at it from a
place of hey my name is James Smith. I
know everything about confidence. My
sweat patches wouldn't say that. But
it's something so inquisitive. It's a
tool in which I've used. And you know
when I was writing the first chapter I
called it a superpower. Then I deleted
that because superpowers are
unobtainable. This is obtainable. And
I've come to realize and during the
writing I'm learning a lot as well. I'm
like is confidence genetics? And I go
into heritability and then I go into,
you know, what different types of
confidence are there? How does it affect
us? You had Mel Robbins on recently. So
I started listening to her book 54321.
It's like 54321. I'm still [__] my
pants asking this girl for a [__]
number. So like then I I like to get
into these systems. I go that might work
for someone, but that doesn't work for
me. And during this process, I'm not
releasing it until January next year.
I'm going on these journeys. I'm asking
myself these questions. So I'm very
happy to go to external uh experts in
that field. There's quite a bit of
nonsense out there I feel. And similar
to the world of fitness, I'm not the
most fit guy. But I took the field and I
provided clarity. I'm not the expert in
life design. But I went out, I created a
book on clarity. I wouldn't want to come
into a place of confidence go hey I'm
the most confident person on the planet.
Because so many of us that are very
confident in certain realms have gaping
holes in our confidence. Every one of
us. You and I, right? You're doing a O2
Arena. 16,000 people in there. Do your
thing. We'll be like, "Let's go." You're
in Sorrow House on a Friday night. That
girl is g ask for a number. No, no, no.
I'm I'm too scared. You know, so if we
can help people identify their gaping
holes, give them understanding for it.
Is it merely a perception of our
external reality?
Is it something that's nature? Is it
nurture?
It's I wish I had more for you right
now, but I'm still learning. And
again, someone goes, "Why should I buy
your book on confidence?" I go, "It took
me a year and a half. It's 12 quid.
Don't [__] buy it then." So, yeah,
it's it's one of those things. It's a
very exciting project for me. And even
now, I I enjoy talking to people I
admire about it because they'll say
something and I'll be like, I can't wait
to research that and go down the rabbit
hole and have 20 browsers open on my
laptop. It it's an exciting prog process
that I really enjoy.
Well, listen, uh, James, you know, we've
got one more thing to do, which is a
tradition of the D CEO, which you might
have seen before if you've watched a
podcast before, which is the previous
guest asks the next guest a question,
and they never know who they're writing
it for. And also, I never know what the
question is until I read it. So,
what is your definition of luck?
when preparation meets opportunity. I
disregard luck when people talk about
it. People say, "I got lucky." I say,
"Fuck you." I'm like, "No, you didn't."
And I I hate the way people connect
people's dots. I hate it. For yourself,
someone goes, "Oh, right age, right
time, right time, right age, [__] you."
You know, I hate it. No one's lucky. And
I think that although there are certain
privileges people can have, please never
underestimate someone's work because
connecting the dots is a primitive thing
that we do. And you know, the better
people can suppress the notion that
they're lucky, they can be fortunate in
some respects, but this luck, I don't
let's not undo people's work.
I completely agree. And I also think
that um to add to that, when you start
to believe in this religion of luck,
what you're actually doing is
disempowering yourself, you're handing
over the reigns of your life to this
force outside of your control, and
you're just sitting there aimlessly
hoping that it falls in your favor. And
I So when I post things sometimes, I I'd
like to wind people up on my stories.
And the things I'll post are like,
honestly, the easiest way to wind people
up is just to talk about personal
responsibility. Okay, you weren't to
blame for what happened, but you are now
responsible. One of my guests, who was
it? Um Mark Manson he said okay someone
leaves a baby on your doorstep not your
fault but it is immediately your
responsibility and and people just and
Mo Gad said it as well people just
[__] hate the idea of like taking
responsibility for your life um but I
think that any other choice pointing at
luck pointing at privilege too much
despairing that the Tory government are
in power so that's why you're poor is a
way to hand to to choose your puppet
master as this invisible force that gets
to call the shots. Thank you so much.
You were nervous, you said, to to come
and do this today. Do
you know what? I actually about 2 three
hours ago, I stood up and I said, I'm
not nervous. I really care about this
podcast.
Yeah.
Because
for me, when I got the invitation, it
got me excited. The opportunity to talk.
I know this platform. I know I think I
have a good idea of where this podcast
is going as well. Yeah.
And for me to have an opportunity to not
be Instagram James meant a lot to me.
So,
it's more of a fact that this was
important to me. I wasn't scared for it.
Yeah. Yeah. That's that's amazing. And
you know, I I personally just took a
screenshot of you after seeing you say
something online and sent it to my team,
I think about two weeks ago and said,
and I never do this, right? What the way
that the podcast typically works is the
team will come up with people that they
know that I would like and they'll send
them to me to approve or not. But it
worked the opposite way around with you.
I saw something you said. I thought,
"This guy's truthful. He's honest. He
has He's smart. Really smart. Probably
way smarter than I think people give you
credit for because honestly, this is one
of my favorite conversations ever.
Thank you.
And it's not because you have a, you
know, just just because you have a great
story. It's because you have the wisdom
to point at the lessons you've learned
and you have the humility also to point
at them with impartiality. Um, so I I
was like, can you reach out to this dude
and please ask him if he wants to come
here? And that doesn't always happen.
Um, so again it's for me when you say
your this was important for you and I
saw you did an Instagram post saying I'm
going on a podcast. That's really Do you
know for me that is like the most it's
the greatest thing that we hear. I just
want to say thank you cuz honestly it's
one of my favorite conversations ever on
this podcast and I mean that
I don't have to say that. I don't gas
people up if I don't have to. I just say
thank you. Goodbye. But no, I genuinely
mean that. It's really really really
amazing conversation and
I uh I also now understand why you've
been so successful.
So thank you for your time. Thank you
for blessing us with your wisdom and uh
yeah, going to keep watching you grow
and grow.
Cheers. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you.
[Music]